Can Prisma generate and
validate CRSF tokens?
No, Prisma cannot do that.
Although, yeah, Prisma can't do that,
it doesn't really know anything about
that as far, cuz that's more of like
a front end issue when it comes to
hijacking things on the front end.
No, typically, the way you get around that
with the strategy that we're doing is that
you would create a refresh token
that is literally just another JWT.
So you have your JWT expire, let's say
it expires, I don't know, 24 hours.
And then after 24 hours, you would
basically have a refresh token, and
then somewhere in your React app,
you would have a use effect hook.
That's unlike a set interval that checks
every ten minutes to see if your JWT
expired.
And if it did, in the background,
it'll automatically exchange that JWT with
the refresh token and get a new JWT,
so that user doesn't have to.
That would be the best user experience
where no one has to do anything,
it just logs you in automatically.
The other way you would do it is you would
just tell the user, your JWT expired,
sign in again.
And you'll see that too, but typically,
you would make the JWT expire a lot later.
>> In production, how does
serverless functions get executed?
Like if we don't have
an active server running,
how will I still get access
to these API endpoints?
>> Good question.
In production,
how do serverless functions execute?
It's a different concept to think about.
So it's called serverless
because there is no server.
The way they get executed is
actually like a callback.
So if you wrote a callback in JavaScript,
that function, okay,
imagine you had a callback on click.
That function actually doesn't do
anything until the click event fires.
The serverless function's the same way.
It actually doesn't do anything
until an event come in.
And depending on what platform you're on,
there's many different types of events.
The most common one is a route.
So whenever this route across the Internet
is activated, that's an event.
And then once that event happens,
your function is executed.
So there's no server, it's literally
just like a callback waiting for
some incoming event.
In this case, the events are the routes,
so it feels and looks like an API, but
in reality, these serverless
functions can respond to anything.
They can respond to things
being added to AWSS3.
They can respond to logs.
They can respond to someone
updating the users on the database.
They literally can respond to anything
depending on what platform you go to.
But in this case of Next.js,
they respond to a route and a verb.
So someone doing a GET
request to this route,
someone doing a POST request to this
route, that's how they respond.
So yeah, the whole concept of
a server running, there isn't one.
It's just callbacks waiting on events.
And as far as the technical details of how
that happens, it's basically like a VM
that gets spinned up, your code is zipped
up in a file somewhere, an s3 somewhere.
It gets unzipped and
then it gets executed.
It waits around for a little bit, and
then eventually, that VM shuts down and
then it spins back up and
someone hits it again.
All right, let's do this.
So first, we gotta get salty
just like we did in the seed.
So we'll create a salt here and
we'll just say bcrypt,
oops, = bcrypt.genSaltSync, Like that.
So we've got our salts.
And then we need to get the email and
password.
So I'm the backend,
I'm making the function.
So I'm saying if you want to sign in,
you must pass the email and password up.
And I'm gonna get that on req.body,
very much like Express.
If you ever use Express,
you're gonna feel very comfortable here,
because most of the serverless functions
are pretty much based off Express.
So we'll get the req.body here.
And then now what we need to
do is a tip to make this user.
So we're doing async await, so
we'll do some try catches in here.
So I'll say I wanna try, and
I'm gonna catch an error just in case.
So what I'm going to attempt to try is
I'm gonna try to create a new user.
The reason I'm putting this in a try
catch because this might fail,
if you give me an email that
already exists in the database,
the person is gonna throw an error and
say this email already exists.
And that's it,
that gonna cause an application error.
But we don't want our process to
error out simply because someone,
like imagine you had a server that crashed
every time someone tried to sign up with
the same email.
That would be terrible, right?
[LAUGH] You don't want that, so that's
why I'm wrapping this in a try catch.
I don't want that to happen,
that's not our fault, that's a user error.
So I'm gonna say user =
await prisma.user.create.
We're gonna attempt to
create this user here.
So we got the data, and then we're gonna
say this email and this password, right?
And then as far as password goes,
obviously we want to hash this.
So we'll say bcrypt.hashSync,
and this takes in the password
that they sent up plus the salt
that we created, so we'll do that.
And then if we do get an error here,
and it's either the database crashed or
something wrong, but
more realistically is that you just sent
up an email that someone already has.
So I'm gonna set the status to a 401,
as in sorry, you're not getting it here.
And then I'm going to send back,
and this is just optional.
I always like to just send
back JSON regardless.
And I'm gonna send back an error
property that says user already exists.
This way, when I'm on my frontend,
I can always just check .error and
get an error message.
So that's just a standard
that I've been doing.
There's so many ways to handle
errors on our frontend, but for me,
I always just send back .error.
And that's there, okay, whatever
the service said, that's pretty obvious.
Then we pull a return here because we
are gonna go outside of this catch.
And then assuming that the user was
created, we need to make a token now, so
a JSON web token.
And the way we can do that is I'm
gonna say token = jwt.sign, so
we can sign a token.
And it's really only needs two things.
The requirements are one,
the payload that you wanna sign.
So what object do you
wanna hash basically?
In this case, I want to hash
an object that has an email,
which is gonna be the email
that the user gave me.
Now, we're gonna say user.email.
And then I want to pass the ID of
the user, which will be user.id.
And then I want to just put a time of when
this was created, which will be Date.now.
It's just nice to know when
this thing was created.
And then the next thing
is you need a secret.
This is how I know that my
server created this thing.
So typically, we put this in
an environment variable somewhere and
you'll store it.
We'll probably do that when
we go to production but for
now we're gonna type in Hello.
It doesn't really matter
what it is right now.
So that will be my secret.
And then the third
argument is some options.
The first one I wanna say is expiresIn.
And I'm just gonna say this expires in,
I don't know, eight hours.
So I could put 8h like that, and
it'll expire in eight hours.
I'll put anything short,
this is gonna get really annoying
when I'm developing up here.
I don't want to keep signing in,
I don't wanna keep doing that.
So I'll just put eight hours, and
if it gets us, it gets us, we deserve it.
Okay, Cool, so there's our token.
This token is gonna be a string.
So it's gonna be this really long,
unique string that looks insane.
And on subsequent requests that we
wanna protect, we can take a look
at the string and reverse this process and
get back this object.
And then that's how we identify and
authorize who is who.
So yeah, that's how JWTs work.
And then the last thing is
to set this JWT in a cookie,
which if you don't know how cookies work,
if you set a cookie while you're
on a request, before you send it back,
it's gonna get added to the browser.
So if we set the cookie here and we send
a response back, this cookie that we're
setting will get set into the person's
browser that requested us.
So we're doing that, other times you'll
see people just send back the JWT and
JSON and it'll save it in local storage or
something like that.
The local storage is fine, but
it can be accessed by JavaScript.
We set it as a cookie and do HTTP only.
It cannot be accessed by JavaScript.
It can only be accessed by HTTP.
So it's probably a better method.
And then you don't have to write any code
on the frontend to send it up because
cookies are sent up automatically anyway.
So it saves us a lot of time and it gives
us a lot more security against CSRF.
So we're gonna say rest.setHeader,
like this.
And the header that we want is
called the Set-Cookie header.
So we'll say Set-Cookie, and
then we're gonna use this cookie package.
So we say cookie.serialize.
And then the name of the cookie,
you can call it whatever you want.
I'm just gonna call mine
TRAX_ACCESS_TOKEN, like that.
Again, you'd probably put this in
an environment variable somewhere too.
We might do that, or at least make
a constant file cuz we're probably gonna
write this three more files.
So this is annoying to write
it multiple times, but
we'll get there when we get there.
The next argument is the token
that we just created.
And then the last argument is an options
objects that we want to pass in.
So there's a couple
things we wanna do here.
The first thing is we wanna
make sure this is httpOnly.
So that means it can only be accessed
in HTTP requests and not by JavaScript.
MaxAge, I think
we wanna make this six hour for whales,
the same as a JWT, that'll be six.
I wish we could just do 6h, this library
doesn't support that, or 8 hours.
So I think this will be 8,
it'll be 8 times 60 times 60.
Yeah, yeah, so that would be 8 hours.
Cuz I think it goes by milliseconds.
And then path, this is the whole website,
so the root of the website.
And then sameSite: 'lax',
I actually forgot what this means,
but I always do this.
So anybody knows what that means,
let me know.
I don't know what that means anymore,
I've lost track, but I do it now.
And then secure,
this is if you want it to be HTTPS or not.
We'll base this on whether the fact
that we're in production or not.
So we'll say process.env.NODE_ENV
=== production.
So if we're in production, then yeah,
this needs to be httpsOnly, but
obviously we're not gonna
do that on localhost.
And then lastly, we'll say
res.json(user) to send the user back.